# Agent mode
Agent mode is a chat mode that gives the AI model access to reading and writing directly into your codebase. Its suggestions are presented to you as a diff and you may keep, modify or reject changes section by section.

# Model selection
Based on what the organization has enabled, you can switch between multiple models. Experiment with the strength and weaknesses of each to better learn when going fast is preffered over going _right_.

# Context
Contexts are starting points for the agent. In VSCode, the currently open file is used as a context by default, but you can add any files you wish to your context. This will help the agent understand what parts of the codebase you want it to work on. It will still be able to search and identify related code outside the context you have given it though.

# Chatmodes
Chatmodes is a way to customize how the agent bahaves to requests by the user. This is done by preparing the prompt with a context that alters its persona. You may create multiple chatmodes for different purposes (research, architecture, code-beast etc.). Read more about chatmodes [here](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/copilot/customization/custom-chat-modes).
Also check out [Beastmode v3.1](https://gist.github.com/burkeholland/88af0249c4b6aff3820bf37898c8bacf) for inspiraion.

# Instructions
Instructions lets you tailor the code generated by the agent to your own preferences. Prefer pascal casing? NoProblem! Big fan of arrow functions? `() =>  "go ahead"`. You can create multiple instruction files that apply to parts or your whole codebase and they can each touch upon different aspects of your code like a styleguide for code readability, architectural decisions to respect etc.
Read more about this [here](https://docs.github.com/en/copilot/how-tos/configure-custom-instructions/add-repository-instructions)

# Architectural respect
Unless specified by you, the agent tends to come up with its own solutions to your problem. Being the craftspersons we are, you might feel that its proposals are _hacky_ and _lacking in vision for the grand scheme of things_. This is partly your fault for not specifying up front. Make sure the AI either has a well established codebase architecture in place to work on, or specify how you would like it to solve a problem.
